"Amerlux is delighted to be involved in creating the 'Night of Heritage Light' and seeing these World Heritage sites in a way that no one has done before," says Amerlux President/CEO Chuck Campagna 

The Night of Heritage Light will illuminate 10 World Heritage Sites in the UK. Starting at William the Conqueror's Tower of London 

"Lighting is an art as well as a science, and it's been really exciting and a lot of fun for us to participate in this event, alongside the SLL and CIBSE," continued Mr. Campagna. "We hope it will inspire the next generation of lighting designers, and remind others of the huge role lighting plays in their daily lives."

Combining their love of light and art, design teams will showcase the practical applications of lighting and how it can improve and enhance architecture. The event will spotlight UNESCO World Heritage Sites to bring additional recognition to these internationally acclaimed locations. About The Society of Light & Lighting (SLL)

The SLL is considered the premier setter of professional practice and authority on lighting design matters. The organization publishes guidance and codes, which are internationally recognized as authoritative, and sets the criteria for best practice in the profession. SLL is part of the Chartered Institution of Building Services Engineers (CIBSE). For more information, please visit www.sll.org.uk.

About The Chartered Institution of Building Services Engineers (CIBSE) 

The CIBSE is the prime source of expertise for sustainable buildings, harnessing its members' skills and knowledge to raise competence across the industry. CIBSE is a licensed institution of the Engineering Council (UK) and has over 19,000 members globally. More details are available at www.cibse.org. 

About the Night of Heritage Light 

For more information about the Night of Heritage Light, please visit www.nohl-sll.org or #NoHL, and for further press materials such as images, please contact by phone at Matt Snowden (0) 20 8772 3671 or email at msnowden@cibse.org 

About Amerlux LLC

A global trailblazer in lighting technology and design, Amerlux understands that the true power of light is not measured in lumens alone, but ultimately in the human responses it creates. Brilliant innovators in its brand-new Oakland, N.J. 

Contact:

AMERLUX, LLC

178 Bauer Drive 

Oakland, New Jersey 

Logo - http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20120118/NY36894LOGO 

To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/amerlux-along-with-sll-and-cibse-to-celebrate-night-of-heritage-light-throughout-uk-on-october-1st-300151734.html